https://unicode.org/reports/tr28/tr28-3.html#13_7_variation_selectors

Unicode characters can be represented by a wide variety of glyphs, as discussed in _Chapter 2__, General Structure_ in _The Unicode Standard, Version 3.0_. Occasionally the need arises in text processing to restrict or change the set of glyphs that are to be used to represent a character. Normally such changes are indicated by choice of font or style in rich-text documents. In special circumstances, such a variation from the normal range of appearance needs to be expressed side-by-side in the same document in plain-text contexts, where it is impossible or inconvenient to exchange formatted text. For example, in languages employing the Mongolian script, sometimes a specific variant range of glyphs is needed for a specific textual purpose for which the range of “generic” glyphs is considered inappropriate. The variation selectors are used when characters have essentially the same semantic.

Variation selectors provide a mechanism for specifying a restriction on the set of glyphs that are used to represent a particular character. They also provide a mechanism for specifying variants, such as for CJK Ideographs and Mongolian, that have essentially the same semantic but have substantially different ranges of glyphs. A variation sequence, which always consists of a base character followed by the variation selector, may be specified as part of the Unicode Standard. That sequence is referred to as a _variant_ of the base character. The variation selector affects _only_ the appearance of the base character,* and only in the variation sequences defined in this Standard. The variation selector is _not_ used as a general code extension mechanism:

> _Only the variation sequences specifically defined in the Unicode Character Database in the file [StandardizedVariants.html](http://www.unicode.org/Public/3.2-Update/StandardizedVariants-3.2.0.html) are sanctioned for standard use; in all other cases the variation selector cannot change the visual appearance of the preceding base character from what it would have had, in the absence of the variation selector._

The base character in a variation sequence is never a combining character or a decomposable character.* The variation selectors themselves are combining marks of combining class 0, and are default ignorable characters. Thus if the variation sequence is not supported, the variation selector should be invisible and ignored. As with all default ignorable characters, this does not preclude modes or environments where the variation selectors should be given visible appearance. For example, a “Show Hidden” mode could reveal the presence of such characters with specialized glyphs, or particular environment could use or require a visual indication of a base character (such as a wavy underline) to show that it is part of a standardized variation sequence that cannot be supported by the current font.

The standardization or support of a particular variation sequence does _not_ limit the set of glyphs that can be used to represent the base character alone. If a user _requires_ a visual distinction between a character and a particular variant of that character, then fonts must be used to make that distinction. The existence of a variation sequence does not preclude the later encoding of a new character with a distinct semantic and a similar or overlapping range of glyphs.

> * Note: Just before publication, an inconsistency was discovered between the above principles and the standardization of the two variant sequences <2278, FE00> and <2279, FE00> because U+2278 and U+2279 are in fact decomposable characters. Those variant sequences denote glyph variants of these mathematical symbols with a vertical line instead of a slanted line as the diacritic to indicate the negation.
> 
> The sequence <2278, FE00> is canonically equivalent to <2276, 0338, FE00>, and the sequence <2279, FE00> is canonically equivalent to <2277, 0338, FE00>. So that these equivalent sequences are given equivalent rendering treatment, the use of U+FE00 would have to be interpreted—exceptionally—as defining a variant appearance for the _entire_ sequence.
> 
> Because a combining vertical line overlay, U+20D2 COMBINING LONG VERTICAL LINE OVERLAY, is also available in the Standard, an alternate way of explicitly indicating these particular variants already exists. That alternative mechanism is a safer and more stable way to indicate the distinction, as the inherent complications in allowing variation selectors to follow combining marks may require future corrective action to remove the exceptional variant sequences <2278, FE00> and <2279, FE00> from the table.