Topic: Lack of Leisure Time (Band 7.5)
In some countries young people have little leisure time and are under a lot of pressure to work hard on their studies.

What do you think are the causes of this?

What solutions can you suggest?

1st
--- 
Nowadays, there is a majority of young people who have to live under a very much pressure to work hard, to study hard for their career. They are always studying and have no time for leisure activity. There are a lot of reason which cause this to be happening, and of courses, there are answers to solve this problem too. Speaking in the perspective of one individual who also was a victim of this, today I gonna work through all of it.

Firstly, let's talk about the causes. The main cause of this situation definitely is the strict schedule of their curriculum. In today's world, university and college often have a very dense schedule which force the students to spend time on it, this is compulsary. Then after their sessions on school, students will have excercises to work on, which will eat up a lot of their time at home. So with these reason, we would think it can not be enough for them to lose all their leisure time, right ? That's true, because there are other causes which take the rest of their leisure time. It's the extra activity on schools that I am talking about, students often have to work extra on their school to gain the conditions to graduate from school. So that are causes which I can think of.  

The solutions to this situation, will depend on each individual. But some of the most common will be prioritize their schedule. You know, time management have always been a crucial skill to have, especially in the current busy world that we are living in. Students should know how to manage their schedule so that they will always have time for their leisure activity like sports, traveling, gathering together, etc. They should know that their leisure activity is important as much as their study, because without a clear mind and a healthy body, their life in the long run will be pretty tough. It is not easy to just have the ability to manage their schedule. So what happen to the ones that have no choice to go under a disaster schedule with no leisure time ? Well, they will have to think again about their choices, and they should get rid of some of their works. 

In conclusion, this situation is the result of today's society problems. Young people must undergo it no matter what, and it's up to each individual to handle it so that they will have time for their leisure activity. Time management is the a good solution for people to get a better daily life schedule, but if it's not enough, they are going to need take a another route to weight down their works.

---
2nd

