
> **Some people believe that the increasing use of technology, such as smartphones and the internet, has brought people closer together. Others argue that it is a primary cause of social isolation.**
> 
> **Discuss both these views and give your own opinion.**

Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience.

---
**INTRO**
Nowadays, ~~technologies have come a long way~~ **technology** has **advanced** significantly to improve people's lives. 

~~Since the internet and smartphone come out,  it has brought people closer together. However, some argue that it is a primary cause of social isolation.~~
-> Since the advent of the internet and **smartphones**, a debate has emerged:
While these tools are intended to bring **humanity** closer, many argue that it is a primary cause of social isolation.

I believe/despite/benefit/connectivity, /overuse/ultimately/profound/disconnection/society
-> I believe that despite the benefits of online connectivity, the overuse has ultimately caused a profound disconnection in society. 

**INTRO (v2)**
- emergence/technology/internet/smartphone/undeniably/daily life. 
-> The emergence of technology like the Internet and smartphone are undeniably part of our daily life.
- spark/debate, some/contending/bring/humanity/together, others/believe/social isolation.
-> This sparks the debate: some are contending they have brought humanity closer together, others believe they have been causing social isolation.
- This essay/technology/para effect, strengthen/long-distance/weaken/local,/.../interactions
-> This essay believe that these technology have paradoxical effect, simunatously strengthen long-distance relationship while weaken local and face-to-face interactions



---
